KEP-2400: Graduate swap to Beta 1 (#3957)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md

This proposal enables scenarios 1 and 2 above, but not 3.

> ### Enable Swap Support only for Burstable QoS Pods

Reviewer: WDYT about adding a reasoning to why only Burstable QoS Pods are affected?
In my [POC](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/117392) I wrote:

> Note: swap access is granted only for pods of Burstrable QoS. Guaranteed QoS pods are usually higher-priority pods, therefore we want to avoid swap's performance penalty for them. Best-Effort pods, on the contrary, are low-priority pods that are the first to be killed during node pressures. In addition, they're unpredictible, therefore it's hard to assess how much swap memory is a reasonable amount to allocate for them.

Reviewer 2: Does it mean

- for guaranteed pod, it should not use swap at all.
- - in cgroup v1, `memory.memsw.limit_in_bytes` should equals `memory.limit_in_bytes` ?

Author: Yes, since we are still in early stages of understanding the impact of enabling swap, it would be better if we could restrict its use only for Burstable pods, https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3957/files#diff-32d9cbd2b6817965ecee751dfe43b0d91269aee738a5799c9c9a68d04a329ec6R175

Reviewer 2: This may be to todo item then.

Author: Yes, I have added it in beta 1 section, https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3957/files#diff-32d9cbd2b6817965ecee751dfe43b0d91269aee738a5799c9c9a68d04a329ec6R625

@iholder101 attempted to create early implementation https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/117392/files#diff-f42b5c2632abe72391ae4fa91f7b51ebeb6266c7e10f6d6f472663cf97a493e8R311

Allocate the swap limit equal to the requested memory for each container and adjust the proportion of swap based on the total swap memory available, we can follow these steps:

1. **Calculate the total memory requests of the pod:**
   - Sum up the memory requests of all containers in the pod. Let's call this value `TotalMemory`.

2. **Determine the swap proportion for each container:**
   - For each container, divide its memory request by the `TotalMemory`. The result will be the proportion of requested memory for that container within the pod. Let's call this value `RequestedMemoryProportion`.

3. **Calculate the total swap memory available:**

>    - Determine the total swap memory available in the system. If the total swap memory is equal to the total physical memory, you can skip this step. Otherwise, calculate the proportion of available swap memory compared to the total physical memory. Let's call this value `SwapMemoryProportion`.

Reviewer: nit:
What do you think about dropping `If the total swap memory is equal to the total physical memory, you can skip this step`? Although unlikely in practice, in theory the available swap memory might also be bigger than the available memory on the node.

Perhaps something like `divide the available swap memory by the total physical memory` is more generalized and complete, and covers all cases.

- Container B: Memory request 1 GB

Let's assume the total physical memory is 4 GB and the total swap memory available is also 4 GB.

Step 1: Calculate the total memory requests of the pod: 2 GB + 1 GB = 3 GB

Step 2: Determine the requested memory proportion for each container:
- Container A: (2 GB) / (3 GB) = 2/3
- Container B: (1 GB) / (3 GB) = 1/3

Step 3: Calculate the total swap memory available: Since the total swap memory (4 GB) is equal to the total physical memory (4 GB), the `SwapMemoryProportion` will be 1.

Step 4: Calculate the swap limit for each container:
- Container A: (2/3) * 2 GB * 1 = 4/3 GB ≈ 1.33 GB
- Container B: (1/3) * 1 GB * 1 = 1/3 GB ≈ 0.33 GB

In this example, Container A would have a swap limit of 1.33 GB, and Container B would have a swap limit of 0.33 GB.

This approach allocates swap limits based on each container's memory request and adjusts the proportion based on the total swap memory available in the system. It ensures that each container gets a fair share of the swap space and helps maintain resource allocation efficiency.

#### Example 2 - Configured swap memory on the host is NOT equal to the physical memory

> If the total physical memory is 4 GB and the total swap memory available is 2 GB, we can adjust the example 1 using the same approach:

Reviewer: nit:
What do you think about making this example a bit more realistic?
Maybe we can show total memory of `400G` and swap size of `30G`?

Not sure it's important though.

By doing so, we can ensure a thorough understanding of the feature's performance and stability before considering the manual input of swap values in a subsequent beta release. This cautious approach will ensure the efficient allocation of resources and the smooth integration of swap support into Kubernetes.

Allocate the swap limit equal to the requested memory for each container and adjust the proportion of swap based on the total swap memory available, we can follow these steps:

1. **Calculate the total memory requests of the pod:**
   - Sum up the memory requests of all containers in the pod. Let's call this value `TotalMemory`.

2. **Determine the swap proportion for each container:**
   - For each container, divide its memory request by the `TotalMemory`. The result will be the proportion of requested memory for that container within the pod. Let's call this value `RequestedMemoryProportion`.

> 3. **Calculate the total swap memory available:**

Reviewer 3: Do we set any aside for the system (kernel + systemd + kubelet + runtime, etc.)?

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105271 
This should be based on the allocatable swap after it is supported in system-reserved.

Author: There are a few [questions](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105271#issuecomment-1530060979) about the way system reserved for swap is implemented there. 

But we can indirectly set aside some swap space away from the pods. I have tried to document that [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3957/files#diff-32d9cbd2b6817965ecee751dfe43b0d91269aee738a5799c9c9a68d04a329ec6R184).

Step 4: Calculate the swap limit for each container:
- Container A: (2/3) * 20 GB * 1 = 4/3 GB ≈ 13.33 GB
- Container B: (1/3) * 10 GB * 1 = 1/3 GB ≈ 3.33 GB

In this example, Container A would have a swap limit of 13.33 GB, and Container B would have a swap limit of 3.33 GB.

This approach allocates swap limits based on each container's memory request and adjusts the proportion based on the total swap memory available in the system. It ensures that each container gets a fair share of the swap space and helps maintain resource allocation efficiency.

#### Example 2 - Configured swap memory on the host is NOT equal to the physical memory

If the total physical memory is 40 GB and the total swap memory available is 20 GB, we can adjust the example 1 using the same approach:

Suppose we have a Burstable QoS pod with two containers:

- Container A: Memory request 20 GB
- Container B: Memory request 10 GB

Step 1: Calculate the total memory requests of the pod: 20 GB + 10 GB = 30 GB

Step 2: Determine the requested memory proportion for each container:
- Container A: (20 GB) / (30 GB) = 2/3
- Container B: (10 GB) / (30 GB) = 1/3

> Step 3: Calculate the total swap memory available: Since the total swap memory (2 GB) is not equal to the total physical memory (4 GB), the `SwapMemoryProportion` will be 2 GB / 4 GB = 1/2.

Reviewer 2: If swap can be reserved in --system-reserved of kubelet, this should base on that input.

Author: There are a few concerns about how is it implemented in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105271#issuecomment-1530060979, however I have added a [section](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3957/files#diff-32d9cbd2b6817965ecee751dfe43b0d91269aee738a5799c9c9a68d04a329ec6R184) in KEP on how we can effectively set aside some swap space for system critical daemons.

This proposal enables scenarios 1 and 2 above, but not 3.

### Enable Swap Support only for Burstable QoS Pods
Before enabling swap support through the pod API, it is crucial to build confidence in this feature by carefully assessing its impact on workloads and Kubernetes. As an initial step, we propose enabling swap support for Burstable QoS Pods by automatically calculating the appropriate swap values, rather than allowing users to input these values manually. 

Swap access is granted only for pods of Burstable QoS. Guaranteed QoS pods are usually higher-priority pods, therefore we want to avoid swap's performance penalty for them. Best-Effort pods, on the contrary, are low-priority pods that are the first to be killed during node pressures. In addition, they're unpredictable, therefore it's hard to assess how much swap memory is a reasonable amount to allocate for them. 

By doing so, we can ensure a thorough understanding of the feature's performance and stability before considering the manual input of swap values in a subsequent beta release. This cautious approach will ensure the efficient allocation of resources and the smooth integration of swap support into Kubernetes.

> Allocate the swap limit equal to the requested memory for each container and adjust the proportion of swap based on the total swap memory available.

Reviewer 4: what if container hasn't requested anything? It also might or might not have limit set up. Let's define the behavior in this case.

> Allocate the swap limit equal to the requested memory for each container and adjust the proportion of swap based on the total swap memory available.

Reviewer 4: Is proposal to start with proportional approach to avoid the API change?

Reviewer: Yes indeed.
Or more generally: to avoid letting the user configure swap, which is very difficult to do and might compromise the node.

System critical daemons (such as Kubelet) are essential for node health. Usually, an appropriate portion of system resources (e.g., memory, CPU) is reserved as system reserved. However, swap doesn't inherently support reserving a portion out of the total available. For instance, in the case of memory, we set `memory.min` on the node-level cgroup to ensure an adequate amount of memory is set aside, away from the pods, and for system critical daemons. But there is no equivalent for swap; i.e., no `memory.swap.min` is supported in the kernel. 

Since this proposal advocates enabling swap only for the Burstable QoS pods, this can be done by setting `memory.swap.max` on the cgroups used by the Burstable QoS pods. The value of this `memory.swap.max` can be calculated by:

memory.swap.max = total swap memory available on the system - system reserve (memory)

This is the total amount of swap available for all the Burstable QoS pods; let's call it `TotalPodsSwapAvailable`. This will ensure that the system critical daemons will have access to the swap at least equal to the system reserved memory. This will indirectly act as having support for swap in system reserved.

> #### Use Swap Throttling

Reviewer 2: > Healthy workloads are not expected to reach this limit.

When swap throttling starts to work, should we generate a warning event for the pod?

`memory.swap.high` in the cgroup v2 allows you to enable throttling for swap allocation. If a cgroup’s swap usage exceeds `memory.swap.high`, all its further allocations will be throttled.

Throttling will be enabled at individual Burstable QoS pod as well as at Burstable QoS cgroup level.

1. At the Burstable QoS cgroup level, it can be calculated with: memory.swap.high = `TotalPodsSwapAvailable` * swap throttling factor
2. At individual Burstable QoS pod level, it can be calculated with: memory.swap.high = memory.swap.max * swap throttling factor

The default value of the memory throttling factor is set to 0.9.
### Steps to Calculate Swap Limit

1. **Calculate the total memory requests of the pod:**
   - Sum up the memory requests of all containers in the pod. Let's call this value `TotalMemory`.

> 2. **Determine the swap proportion for each container:**

Reviewer 4: It may be desired by the end user to NOT have swap for container which has `request== limit` (for a specific container, even in a burstable Pod). So maybe this step can be adjusted and those containers which has `request==limit` are excluded from the swap proportion calculations.

This will also be good from security perspective. If you want to disable swap for your Pod - just make it's limit equal to request.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me :+1:

> 2. **Determine the swap proportion for each container:**

Reviewer 4: this may not be ideal that containers that do not request any memory (presuming those containers are not consuming much and happy to be swapped) will receive zero proportion of swap. I'd say those need to get some default or pre-defined proportion.

Reviewer: Yes, this makes total sense.

The following approach comes into mind:
We can decide to allocate some percentage of the proportion, say 10% (we can discuss the exact value), that would split between **all** of the containers that do not request any memory.

<ins>For example:</ins>
For simplicity, let's assume that `SwapMemoryProportion` equals to 1 (i.e. swap size is equal to total physical memory size).

Let's say that a pod is defined with 4 containers:
* Container A: requests `1500Mi`
* Container B: requests `500Mi`
* Containers C, D and E: don't request memory.

The total pod memory: `2000Mi`. Then the `RequestedMemoryProportion` for the containers would be:
* Container A: `0.9 * (1500Mi / 2000Mi)` == `0.9 * 0.75` == `0.675`
* Container B: `0.9 * (500Mi / 2000Mi)` == `0.9 * 0.25` == `0.225`
* Container C and D: `0.1 * (1/3)` == `1/30` ~ `0.0333`

_note that `0.675+0.225+(3*0.0333) == 1`_

So, the total swap allocation for these containers would be:
* Container A: `0.675 * 2000Mi` == `1350Mi`
* Container B: `0.225 * 2000Mi` == `450Mi`
* Container C, D and E: `1/30 * 2000Mi` == `66.6667Mi`

_note that `1350Mi+450Mi+(3*66.6667Mi) == 2000Mi`_

WDYT?
FYI @harche

Author: @SergeyKanzhelev I am not sure if I got that correctly, but if a container needs swap then that container should request memory, that's the basic premise of this KEP. IMHO, this keeps things very simple and predictable.

Author: @SergeyKanzhelev I see, in that case we can probably go with @iholder101's [suggestion above](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3957#discussion_r1219449643) or if you have a different idea to handle this, would like to see that as well. But I still believe, we are complicating things without gaining much. If we stay with the assumption that container gets swap only if requested, it is far simple approach.

Reviewer: > Logically it makes sense. Practically I'm coming from the assumption that no request indicates "work on any leftover memory the Pod has". Meaning that the container is fine with whatever you can give to it. Which is a good candidate for swap memory.

IMHO having no request can also indicate "I'm not sure how much memory this container would consume", or even "this is a low priority pod, if you don't have enough memory for it, just kill it - it's fine by me".

Essentially, we're taking some of the swap allocation from containers that had explicitly requested it (by having memory requests) to containers that didn't, and I'm not sure that's the desired result for every use-case. Additionally, there is no appropriate way to disable swap for these containers, as setting request == limit might compromise the container of being killed even quicker, and is the opposite of the "best-effort" approach that was defined for it in the first place.

Lastly, I agree with @harche that it would complicate stuff. As a user, the calculation as it is now would seem much simpler to understand and manage, and one of the goals of this KEP is to keep configuration as transparent and simple as we can. I also don't see much of a disadvantage in defining some memory requests for these containers if I think they need swap to be allocated for them.

As @harche said, I'm fine with my approach from the previous comment, but I don't think it's necessary.

Let me know what you think.

   - For each container, divide its memory request by the `TotalMemory`. The result will be the proportion of requested memory for that container within the pod. Let's call this value `RequestedMemoryProportion`.

> 3. **Calculate the total swap memory available:**

Reviewer 4: so a number of guaranteed Pods will render the portion of swap memory unavailable, correct? This is not a concern, just trying to understand the proposal

Since swap provisioning is out of scope of this proposal, this enhancement
poses low risk to Kubernetes clusters that will not enable swap.

#### Security risk

Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information, such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of kubelet; rather, it is a general OS configuration concern and should be addressed at that level. Nevertheless, it is essential to provide documentation that warns users of this potential issue, ensuring they are aware of the potential security implications and can take appropriate steps to safeguard their system.

> Additionally end user may decide to disable swap completely for a Pod in beta 1 by making it guaranteed. This way, there will be no swap enabled for the corresponding containers and there will be no information exposure risks.

Reviewer 4: How can we guarantee that system reserved can be set to zero so no system processes will ever use swap? Can we add this as an explicit goal?

Reviewer: I'm not sure how we can guarantee that.
With @pacoxu's [PR](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105271) we can reserve some swap space to the system, but reserving 0 swap to the system does not mean that the system cannot use swap, it's just that there won't be a swap space that's dedicated to it.

I don't see a practical way of achieving this with cgroups, unless we can mess with the node's non-kubernetes cgroups hierarchies, and I assume that we can't do that.

@harche @pacoxu WDYT?

Author: @SergeyKanzhelev we can set `memory.swap.max` to `0` on system reserved cgroup (in our case usually that happens to be `/sys/fs/cgroup/system.slice`) and if we set `memory.swap.max` to `max` on burstable pods slice (which in our case usually happens to be `/sys/fs/cgroup/kubepods.slice/kubepods-burstable.slice`) we can 
make sure that no system processes will ever use swap.

As long as system reserved cgroup is setup in a way such that it doesn't end up becoming the parent of the  cgroups where burstable pods are running this arrangement will work fine. Because if someone configures their cgroup in a way where system cgroup is a parent of burstable pods cgroup then this will silently fail because a child cgroup cannot have `memory.swap.max` set to `max` while parent is set to `0`.

> Additionally end user may decide to disable swap completely for a Pod in beta 1 by making it guaranteed. This way, there will be no swap enabled for the corresponding containers and there will be no information exposure risks.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Additionally end user may decide to disable swap completely for a Pod or a container in beta 1 by making Pod guaranteed or set request == limit for a container. This way, there will be no swap enabled for the corresponding containers and there will be no information exposure risks.
```

Since swap provisioning is out of scope of this proposal, this enhancement
poses low risk to Kubernetes clusters that will not enable swap.

#### Security risk

Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information, such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of kubelet; rather, it is a general OS configuration concern and should be addressed at that level. Nevertheless, it is essential to provide documentation that warns users of this potential issue, ensuring they are aware of the potential security implications and can take appropriate steps to safeguard their system.

> To guarantee that system daemons are not swapped, the kubelet must configure the `memory.swap.max` setting to `0` within the system reserved cgroup. Moreover, to make sure that burstable pods are able to utilize swap space, kubelet should verify that the cgroup associated with burstable pods should not be nested under the cgroup designated for system reserved.

Reviewer 5: In otherwords: kubeleconfig.CgroupRoot can't be a child of kubeletconfig.SystemReservedCgroups. 

as an implementation note: this should probably be added to the kubelet config documentation

Since swap provisioning is out of scope of this proposal, this enhancement
poses low risk to Kubernetes clusters that will not enable swap.

> Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information, such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of kubelet; rather, it is a general Linux configuration concern and should be addressed at that level. Nevertheless, it is essential to provide documentation that warns users of this potential issue, ensuring they are aware of the potential security implications and can take appropriate steps to safeguard their system.

Reviewer: `"it is a general Linux configuration concern"`
As it's not linux-specific issue, maybe we can go with `"it is a general OS configuration concern"` instead?

Since swap provisioning is out of scope of this proposal, this enhancement
poses low risk to Kubernetes clusters that will not enable swap.

> Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information, such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of kubelet; rather, it is a general OS configuration concern and should be addressed at that level. Nevertheless, it is essential to provide documentation that warns users of this potential issue, ensuring they are aware of the potential security implications and can take appropriate steps to safeguard their system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Security risk

Enabling swap on a system without encryption poses a security risk, as critical information, such as Kubernetes secrets, may be swapped out to the disk. If an unauthorized individual gains access to the disk, they could potentially obtain these secrets. To mitigate this risk, it is recommended to use encrypted swap. However, handling encrypted swap is not within the scope of kubelet; rather, it is a general OS configuration concern and should be addressed at that level. Nevertheless, it is essential to provide documentation that warns users of this potential issue, ensuring they are aware of the potential security implications and can take appropriate steps to safeguard their system.

Additionally end user may decide to disable swap completely for a Pod in beta 1 by making it guaranteed. This way, there will be no swap enabled for the corresponding containers and there will be no information exposure risks.
```

Reviewer: Done. Thanks!

No new e2e tests introduced.

For alpha2:

- Add e2e tests that exercise all available swap configurations via the CRI.
- Verify MemoryPressure behavior with swap enabled and document any changes
  for configuring eviction.
- Verify new system-reserved settings for swap memory.

For beta 1:

- Add e2e tests that verify pod-level control of swap utilization.

> - Add e2e tests that verify swap performance with pods using a tmpfs.

Reviewer: I would be happy for some clarifications regarding the test plan for Beta1.

> Add e2e tests that verify pod-level control of swap utilization.

This sounds a bit outdated. Can we change it to something like `Add e2e tests that verify that the right amount of swap limitation is automatically configured for burstable pods`?

> Add e2e tests that verify swap performance with pods using a tmpfs.

@SergeyKanzhelev would you mind clarifying that?
Which performance test do we want to do here? IOW, what do we want to verify?
Also, what does "pods using a tmpfs" means in this context?

Thanks!

Author: @SergeyKanzhelev sorry but I was also not able to gather any context around this line, `Add e2e tests that verify swap performance with pods using a tmpfs.` I see that it was added when swap was introduced as alpha.

  swap limit for workloads.
- Investigate eviction behavior with swap enabled.

#### Beta 1
- Enable Swap Support using Burstable QoS Pods only. 
- Enable Swap Support for Cgroup v2 Only.
- Add swap memory to the Kubelet stats api.
- Determine a set of metrics for node QoS in order to evaluate the performance
  of nodes with and without swap enabled.
- Make sure node e2e jobs that use swap are healthy
- Improve coverage for appropriate scenarios in testgrid.

> - Remove support for setting unlimited amount of swap (including [swapBehavior](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/#kubelet-config-k8s-io-v1beta1-MemorySwapConfiguration) flag of the Kubelet) as any workload with aggressive memory allocation can bring down a node with having no limits on swap usage.

Reviewer 4: I don't quite follow how it will bring the node down if it has unlimited swap comparing to many Gb limit? Unlimited swap is useful for scenarios when the node is being used essentially for one big Pod doing some heavy processing that requires memory mapping of a large size without a lot of random access. This scenario still works with limiting as proposed - proportional to the node limit. But I would question the reasoning suggested here

  swap limit for workloads.
- Investigate eviction behavior with swap enabled.

#### Beta 1
- Enable Swap Support using Burstable QoS Pods only. 
- Enable Swap Support for Cgroup v2 Only.
- Add swap memory to the Kubelet stats api.
- Determine a set of metrics for node QoS in order to evaluate the performance
  of nodes with and without swap enabled.
- Make sure node e2e jobs that use swap are healthy
- Improve coverage for appropriate scenarios in testgrid.
- Remove support for setting unlimited amount of swap (including [swapBehavior](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/#kubelet-config-k8s-io-v1beta1-MemorySwapConfiguration) flag of the Kubelet) as any workload with aggressive memory allocation can bring down a node with having no limits on swap usage.

#### Beta 2

> - Add support for controlling swap consumption at the container level [via cgroups] in Pod API in [container resources](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/94a15929cf13354fdf3747cb266d511154f8c97b/staging/src/k8s.io/api/core/v1/types.go#L2443). More specifically add a new [ResourceName](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/94a15929cf13354fdf3747cb266d511154f8c97b/staging/src/k8s.io/api/core/v1/types.go#L5522) `swap`. This will make sure we stay consistent with other resources like `cpu`, `memory` etc.

Reviewer 3: I would drop this since we don't really want to commit to adding this to the pod API yet. We can evaluate that and then decide.

Reviewer: Done :+1:

  swap limit for workloads.
- Investigate eviction behavior with swap enabled.

#### Beta 1
- Enable Swap Support using Burstable QoS Pods only. 
- Add swap memory to the Kubelet stats api.
- Determine a set of metrics for node QoS in order to evaluate the performance
  of nodes with and without swap enabled.
- Better understand relationship of swap with memory QoS in cgroup v2

>   (particularly `memory.high` usage).

Reviewer: > Better understand relationship of swap with memory QoS in cgroup v2 (particularly `memory.high` usage).

Do we want to remove this line?
Is there something missing regarding that?

  swap limit for workloads.
- Investigate eviction behavior with swap enabled.

#### Beta

- Add support for controlling swap consumption at the pod level [via cgroups].
- Handle usage of swap during container restart boundaries for writes to tmpfs
  (which may require pod cgroup change beyond what container runtime will do at
  container cgroup boundary).
#### Beta 1
- Enable Swap Support using Burstable QoS Pods only. 
- Add swap memory to the Kubelet stats api.
- Determine a set of metrics for node QoS in order to evaluate the performance
  of nodes with and without swap enabled.

> - Better understand relationship of swap with memory QoS in cgroup v2

Reviewer 2: For cgroup v2, `memory.swap.high` may be helpful at the node level. We can set it in the node level using a factor like the other KEP https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/2570-memory-qos for memory.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, makes sense to align with v2 QoS work.

Author: I have added a section on using `memory.swap.high` - https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3957/files#diff-32d9cbd2b6817965ecee751dfe43b0d91269aee738a5799c9c9a68d04a329ec6R194

Reviewer: I don't think that using swap throttling is the right approach here.

There are significant differences between `memory.high` and `memory.swap.high` and they are used in a completely different manner.

`memory.high` is described as `"the main mechanism to control memory usage."` and `"when hit, it throttles allocations by forcing them into direct reclaim to work off the excess"` [1].

However, `memory.swap.high` is described as [1]:
```
Swap usage throttle limit.  If a cgroup's swap usage exceeds
this limit, all its further allocations will be throttled to
allow userspace to implement custom out-of-memory procedures.

marks a point of no return for the cgroup. It is NOT
designed to manage the amount of swapping a workload does
during regular operation. Compare to memory.swap.max, which
prohibits swapping past a set amount, but lets the cgroup
continue unimpeded as long as other memory can be reclaimed.

Healthy workloads are not expected to reach this limit.
```

In addition, the Linux kernel commit message that brought `memory.swap.high` says [2] `That is not to say that the knob itself is equivalent to memory.high` and that `Slowing misbehaving tasks down gradually allows user space oom killers or other protection mechanisms to react`.

-----

Since we don't implement any user-space OOM killers, IIUC reaching the memory.swap.high limit would freeze the processes in the cgroup forever.

This makes sense, as swap memory isn't being reclaimed as often as ram, and it's much more expensive to do so. If processes in a cgroup would reach the `memory.swap.max` boundary, however, they would have to keep allocated memory in-ram. If `memory.high` is defined, as the KEP suggests, the processes would reach a point where they freeze up, forced to reclaim memory to continue their operation.

The bottom line is that processes that are out of memory **should reclaim ram memory, not swap memory**.

[1] https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/admin-guide/cgroup-v2.rst
[2] https://lore.kernel.org/linux-mm/20200602044952.g4tpmtOiL%25akpm@linux-foundation.org/

Author: `Slowing misbehaving tasks down gradually allows user space oom killers or other protection mechanisms to react` 

IMO is a good thing. We have seen so many issues in the past where the workload would end up consuming the memory so fast that kernel won't get adequate time to react. In this scenario, the entire system would just freeze and the node would eventually transition into NOT_READY state in k8s.

  swap limit for workloads.
- Investigate eviction behavior with swap enabled.

> #### Beta 1

Reviewer 4: let's limit swap for cgroupv2 -only.

Reviewer 4: The reason to disallow is to make sure there is a way for end users to protect themselves from a swap on specific Pods. On v1 - whatever we do, the app can still get swapped. So whatever end user will do with their Pod, there is no guarantee it wouldn't be swapped. On v2 we can provide some guarantees. Keeping in mind that v2 is something we want to encourage to use anyways, it's better to keep things safer out of the box
